We are currently building DyreID Support AI — an AI-driven support automation system for Norway’s national pet ID register.

The system consists of two parts:

PART 1 — TRAINING AGENT
Uses OpenAI to analyze historical support tickets from Pureservice and extract:

Customer intent

Resolution steps

Required data

Action endpoint

This data is aggregated into a structured Support Playbook.

This is correct and OpenAI must continue to be used here.

PART 2 — RUNTIME SUPPORT CHATBOT

The chatbot currently uses a 4-level response hierarchy:

EXECUTE
GUIDE
INSTRUCT
INFORM

However, if no intent is matched through regex or playbook keyword lookup, the system falls back to OpenAI:

if (!intent) {
  return openAI.chat(...)
}

This causes hallucinations such as:

Incorrect ownership transfer procedures

Incorrect QR subscription information

Suggesting new microchip insertion

Incorrect registration requirements

Incorrect pricing or payment instructions

This is unacceptable because DyreID operates:

a national ownership register

payment-triggered activation

subscription-based tracking products

The chatbot must not improvise procedures.

❗ PROBLEM

OpenAI is currently used in runtime as:

fallback reasoning engine

This must be removed.

OpenAI must only be used during training to extract resolution logic from historical tickets.

🎯 REQUIRED ARCHITECTURE CHANGE

We need to convert the chatbot from:

Open-domain reasoning chatbot

to:

Closed-domain action agent

Runtime responses must be limited to:

Allowlisted intents derived from the DyreID Help Center

Resolution steps extracted from historical tickets

Explicitly mapped API endpoints

If an intent is not in the allowlist, the chatbot must BLOCK and escalate.

OpenAI must not generate new intents, new procedures, or new instructions at runtime.

RUNTIME RULE

If no allowlisted intent is matched:

Return BLOCK response

NOT OpenAI output.

Please analyze the current architecture and propose:

How to remove runtime fallback reasoning

How to restrict GPT usage to paraphrasing only

How to enforce allowlisted intent execution

How to store resolution steps instead of generated answers

We will then provide implementation instructions.